In some food outlets, you might have noticed
a “Thank you” in this format.
On your way out.
They will say, “If you are happy with our
service, please tell others or leave us a
Google review..
Spread the word..”
But, if you are not satisfied.., tell US.
Nothing wrong, hoping to get feedback like
that, but is it practical??
If somebody has a bad thing to say about you,
would they restrict it just to your ears?
Or, will I tweet it to the world?
What is the mentality today?
How do customers leave feedback, and how should
creators accept them?
That’s the topic for the day, today!
Namaste!
Four hundred and fifty two is about Feedback.
You give something out to the world, and the
world gives something back to you.
Yes, they may give money, they may also give
happiness and thankfulness.
But, they may also give feedback.
Sometimes, criticism.
But, when this criticism is given, when this
constructive feedback is given, should we
accept it all, or are there some checks and
some kind of cautions that we need to keep
in mind..?
Let us see!
First up, answer this question for me..
Will you..?
Will you go to the doctor, and say, “I have
a problem..
it is itching me.. all over the underside
of my foot.. it is itching..” and the doctor
recommends that you do something, you stop
doing something, you apply a cream, you take
an injection, … and in response, you go,
“No no no no, that injection is for something
else, why are you recommending THIS to me
NOW, no no no no, this is a banned drug, there
is a counterindication…”
No.
Will you do that?
Or..
You go to the gym.
And the trainer asks you to repeat a particular
exercise so many times.
Or, he asks you to set this as the weight
and do this plyometric exercise.
You… will you cross-question him?
Will you ask, “Why are you recommending
THIS instead of THAT?”?”
No!
So, what am I getting at then?
There are a lot many more consumers than there
are creators.
You are the creator.
That person is the consumer.
If that person could create, he would have
created it, or she would have created it.
Not everybody in the world is a designer.
You are the creator, and that should not be
forgotten.
So, when they give you feedback, they give
it to you from their limited perspective.
Accept it, acknowledge it, but don’t immediately
internalise it and start dancing to their
tunes.
For, if you start dancing to their tunes,
guess what will happen?
No better than the fate that beset this person.
So, rich man, two wives, that is a bold decision,
I am sure you agree..
So, there was this one wife who was old, and
every night, when the man was sleeping, she
would pluck away all the dark black hair that
this guy had on his head.. and then, on other
nights, when he was with this younger wife,
much younger in age, she, unhappy that he
was showing his age, she would pluck all the
silver hair, the grey hair.. and what happened?
Bold became bald!
By the way, I am SHAVING my head, I am not
bald!
Just saying!
So, why are we considering this example?
This is one of Aesop’s fables.
If you are going to dance to a customer’s
tune, another will come along and make you
dance to a different tune.
This is one of the classic warnings in the
startup world.
Some of the greatest consultants and counsellors
in this game say, “Beware of your first
large customer”.
You will be penniless.
You will have a product ready.
You will be in a desperate search for somebody
to buy your product.
Along will come a person.
A rich person.
A person who will buy a MEGA subscription
on your product.
You will lose your soul.
Because?
That person is going to dictate the way forward
for that product from then on.
Be very very careful of that!
Alright!
Here is a third thing to keep in mind.
A user, when using a product, it is almost
like the jockey on the horse.
Why?
Well, who is winning the race?
Is it the horse?
Or is it the jockey?
If there is a problem, and the horse doesn’t
come first, will you blame the horse or..
the person on the horse?
The product creators will think, “The product
was actually very good, the user just didn’t
know how to…”
While the product users, the jockeys, will
say, “If only I had a better horse…”
If you take this to the next level, .. I hope
you remember that word, “Tsaheylu”.
That word is from the Avatar movie.. where
the rider and the beast, they make a neural
connection.. that soul and this soul need
not exchange a single word from here on.
Whatever you know, I will know.
Whatever I feel, you will know..
That heart-to-heart, unspoken connection..
That is how a product and a user should get
connected..
And, when connected like that, they will not
speak out their woes.. because they won’t
even know..
We have encountered this quote in an earlier
Quotidian.. attributed to Henry Ford…
“If I had gone around asking my customers
what they wanted, they would have said ‘give
me faster horses’”!
No!
When I am looking at a path-breaking innovation,
I can’t go around asking!
Steve Jobs didn’t ask “Hey, would you
all like a keyboard-less phone?”
No!
He didn’t!
So, the First Law of Usability, shockingly,
says, “Don’t listen to your user!
That is how they will blabber on!
They will say a hundred different things!
They will sob!
Do not listen to your user!”
Is it not shocking?
These are words from Jakob Nielsen himself!
The First Law of Usability — Do Not Listen
To Your User.
Scrolling further down in the same article,
you will realise the full message.
Do not LISTEN to your user SPEAK about the
problem.
OBSERVE the user STRUGGLE THROUGH the problem.
That is when you will learn.
Otherwise, the user will mix their shortcomings
(like we saw in the case of the jockey and
the horse!) and the product’s shortcomings
and give you an amalgam.
You would not be able to split things apart
and find out what you need to fix in your
product.
Instead, observe!
In our backyard, we have this tree.
The banana tree.
My mom often refers to this tree and says,
“Every part, from the stem all the way to
the leaves, to the fruits, to the flower,
every part, we can use in our kitchen!”
But, that is a pretty rare thing, because
the reality is more often…
There is this guy, Sturgeon, who came out
with his own Law.
He was a science fiction author who published
a Law.
Before we get there, let us talk about musk.
Hey, not THAT Musk.
This musk!
The musk deer.
You don’t even want to know where musk comes
from.
I don’t want to tell you anything further..
Google for it if you want!
Find out which organ, which part of the body,
is the source of this musk, this amazing scent
/ perfume product.
So, ninety percent, ninety-five percent of
this deer, is useless.
It doesn’t even have horns.
Just long down-curving fangs.
Looks ugly, actually.
Nothing is sensational, exceptional.
But, that specific secretion from that gland,
is amazing.
So, that is Sturgeon’s Law.
It says, Ninety percent of everything is crap!
Totally useless.
Don’t even think about taking it to heart.
Looking at a book?
Ninety percent of it is useless.
Only ten percent, there might be a takeaway.
An author?
Well, ninety of the hundred books she may
have written would be good for nothing.
Just ten might be useful.
This sounds even worse than the famous Pareto’s
Principle!
Anyway, why are we talking about Sturgeon’s
Law here?
User feedback — I am sorry — Ninety Percent
is Crap!
You can’t really make good use of it.
It will either be over-the-top praising, or,
they will just be on a trip to destroy you,
belittle you..
You need to wade past all that mire, and deep
down, if you drill, you will get some ten
percent of good feedback.
You need to have the patience, the stamina,
to get down to that ten percent.
If you get caught in the ninety-percent quagmire,
you will be not having any time at all to
build the next version of your product.
The other problem with some developers, some
creators, is that they take things too far.
Assume you are building a car.
One user asks you for a way to take his two
girlfriends in the car.
Another comes along and says he wants to take
all the tools that he has to his garage.
He needs a truck-bed for the car.
Can we satisfy both of them?
What do you think will happen?
You will get an odd-shaped vehicle..
This was called the Subaru BRAT.
In fact, while advertising it in the 1980s,
they actually placed two women in it.
Imagine taking two women in a car that you
own, seated like this.
Would you want to?
Would you dare to?!
So, it is very easy for the creator to take
things too far, if they start listening to
customer feedback without that proper filter.
Remember — Sturgeon’s Law — Ninety Percent
Crap.
Finally, this is something Steve Jobs has
admonished us about very often!
Learn to say NO!
In the United States, there are many many
States.
Some very beautiful ones too.
And, one seemingly dull and boring nearly-nothing
State called Nebraska too!
That State came up with a beautiful advertisement
campaign.
It said, “Lucky for you, there’s nothing
to do here!”
They have nothing.
They don’t even have a boat.
They went on, “In Nebraska, we believe that
only boring people get bored.
So, we invent our own fun.
Like when we realised that a livestock tank
would float, and thought, “It’s a boat!”
Soon, “tanking” became the preferred method
of meandering down our slow-moving rivers.
It might not be everybody’s cup of tea,
but if it sounds as good to you as it did
to us, welcome aboard!”
What are they pointing out here?
Nebraska didn’t try to California.
It said, we are Nebraska.
If you are looking for California-like fun,
go to California!
Here is the phone number!
We would love people LIKE US to come here.
We will take very good care of them, and give
them a memory of a lifetime!
That should be your stance too!
If you have a product that lacks a feature,
and you had consciously taken a decision not
to include that feature in your product, just
because some customer is asking for it, you
shouldn’t make that change!
You should boldly say, we are Nebraska!
Ka — is the name of
a book.
Stories of the Mind and Gods of India.
It tells a lot about Gods, mythology, India,
history, culture…
A book written by an Italian.
But.. this book taught me more about Indian
culture, the Vedas, Gods and Godliness-concepts
than many Indian books by Indian authors had.
This Roberto Calasso.. in this book by him..
there is a discussion about Immortality.
We all know that the Devas are immortal, that
they live forever..
Somewhere, invisible, up there, high in the
heavens…
He gives a beautiful new twist to this belief.
He says, at one point, the Devas wanted immortality..
Begged God, for what?
For permission to hide between the lines of
the Vedas.
The books had been written.
They were destined to be immortal.
They will always exist as long as human kind
is around..
Will you please mention me..?
Surya, is not Immortal because he is there
forever.
Surya is immortal because he has been immortalised
in the lines of the book.
That was the twist!
Why am I telling this here?
Customers will want something without realising
that is what they want.
They may ask for a button in the right bottom
of the screen..
You shouldn’t immediately rush in and promise
them, “No problem!
Will get that added in by tomorrow afternoon!”
That is foolishness.
Ask WHY instead.
You may remember the Five Whys approach we
had discussed earlier.
To ask Whys is the wise thing to do!
Catch my point!
So, ask a Why!
And, the user may say, “If there is a button,
it would be easier for me to save the file.
It is too hard and effortful to go to the
menu and choose Save”..
And, you say, “How about AutoSave?
Every five seconds, as you edit the document,
what if I automatically save the latest version?
Would that suit your need?”
The user exclaims, “Wow!
That is exactly what I want!”
So, ask those Whys!
Do not just give…
When the Devas approached God, He didn’t
just offer them that boon.
He said, “I will give you Immortality, but
not the way you want it, but in a better way”!
So, that should be your intent too..
Try to think why the customer is asking for
something.
Ask those five Whys.
As a closing thought, I am going to tell you
a short story.
The connection between this story and this
episode?
I will let you deduce the tenuous connection
yourself..!
I am not going to make that connection for
you.
I don’t want to offend you by doing that.
There was a bench in a park…
On that bench, an old man..
Very poor man..
Almost.. looking like a beggar.
He even had a small bowl where people were
throwing money in.
He looked unwell, he looked tired, .. he was
coughing.
I wanted to give him some money, so I went
near him and I put some money into his outstretched
hand..
But, unable to stop with that, I looked at
the man, at his dress, at the empty bottles
inside his bag, .. unable to keep silent,
I quipped..
“Don’t immediately take this money and
blow it all away at the nearest drinks shop..
Okay, old man?
Eat good food.
Use for it instead..
Okay?”
That man turned towards me, fierce penetrating
eyes.. and muttered, “Do I tell you how
to spend YOUR money?”
We will meet soon..
Thank you!